README.md, before:

fast_any_all
----

Basically a ~14-17x faster implementation of a common use case for numpy.any/all() using numpy.logical_or/and(). Implementation is trivial. 

It was written to improve performance in situations where you are overlaying identically shaped arrays and building boolean masks within the shaped array. 

For example, if you have 3 raster images, A, B and C, representing different aspects of some data, and in the same shape: 

For each pixel location: 
  if A[location] has the value 3,5, or 7, and B[location] has a value <100, and C[location] has a value 8, then output[location]=True

This can be conveniently represented in terms of any() and all():   `all(any([A==3, A==5, A==7]), B<100, C==8)`

The resulting masks can be combined with [simpleselect](https://github.com/gbb/numpy-simple-select) to enable fast, complex raster-based decisions. This is rather useful for GIS work. 

Author
---

Graeme B. Bell

Usage
---

`import fast_any_all as faa`

`faa.any([list of boolean ndarrays])`, returns true where at least one element is true in an ndarray at that position.

`faa.all([list of boolean ndarrays])`, returns true where at least one element is true in an ndarray at that position.


Examples
---

`import fast_any_all as faa`

`import numpy as np`

`A = np.arange(5000)`

`print faa.any([A<1, A>5])`


Please see [BENCHMARK.md](BENCHMARK.md) for example use.

To run benchmarks: python test_fast_any_all.py 


Todo
---

It's possible to make this implement more of the functionality of np.any by using reshape to alter which axis is used.

But for now, it's fast and has a nicer syntax than np.any() or np.logical_or() with my own use case, which is what I care about.

Licenses
--

GPL, MIT.


Thanks & copyleft
---

Norsk Institutt for Skog og Landskap

Commit message:

Extra information about other methods tried.

README.md, after:

fast_any_all
----

Basically a ~14-17x faster implementation of a common use case for numpy.any/all() using numpy.logical_or/and(). Implementation is trivial. 

It might be helpful to think of this as an extended version of logical_or/and.

It was written to improve performance in situations where you are overlaying identically shaped arrays and building boolean masks within the shaped array. 

For example, if you have 3 raster images, A, B and C, representing different aspects of some data, and in the same shape: 

For each pixel location: 
  if A[location] has the value 3,5, or 7, and B[location] has a value <100, and C[location] has a value 8, then output[location]=True

This can be conveniently represented in terms of any() and all():   `all(any([A==3, A==5, A==7]), B<100, C==8)`

The resulting masks can be combined with [simpleselect](https://github.com/gbb/numpy-simple-select) to enable fast, complex raster-based decisions. This is rather useful for GIS work. 

Author
---

Graeme B. Bell

Usage
---

`import fast_any_all as faa`

`faa.any([list of boolean ndarrays])`, returns true where at least one element is true in an ndarray at that position.

`faa.all([list of boolean ndarrays])`, returns true where at least one element is true in an ndarray at that position.


Examples
---

`import fast_any_all as faa`

`import numpy as np`

`A = np.arange(5000)`

`print faa.any([A<1, A>5])`


Please see [BENCHMARK.md](BENCHMARK.md) for example use.

To run benchmarks: python test_fast_any_all.py 


Todo
---

It's possible to make this implement more of the functionality of np.any by using reshape to alter which axis is used.

But for now, it's fast and has a nicer syntax than np.any() or np.logical_or() with my own use case, which is what I care about.

Licenses
--

GPL, MIT.


Notes
---

I have also tried:

1. Using boolean addressing to overlay repeatedly. 15-20% slower than logical_or

2. Using the ,out facility of logical_or. Appeared to have no effect on performance.


Thanks & copyleft
---

Norsk Institutt for Skog og Landskap
